A compiler translates the entire source code into machine code before execution, generating an executable file.
An interpreter translates and executes code line by line during runtime, without creating a separate executable file.

Object-oriented programming (OOP) is a computer programming model that organizes software design around data, or objects.

class is a user-defined data type for creating objects, defining their properties (attributes) and behaviors.

Objects are the fundamental building blocks of OOP. They represent real-world entities.
Object is an instance of a Class.

Constructor is a special type of function called to create an object.
  __init__ method in Python is used to initialize objects of a class. It is also called a constructor.

self parameter is a reference to the current instance of class and used to access variable which blongs to class.

Abstraction is used to hide unnecessary information and display only necessary information to the users interacting.

Encapsulation bundles data (attributes) and the methods (functions) that operate on that data into a single unit, called a class,

static method is a method associated with a class, not an instance of the class, and is defined using the @staticmethod decorator.

Access Modifier
Public: public methods and fields can be accessed directly by any class.
Protected ( _ ) : protected methods and fields can be accessed within the same class it is declared and its subclass.
Private ( __ ): private methods and fields can be only accessed within the same class it is declared.

Inheritance allows a class (child class) to acquire/derive properties and methods of another class (parent class).

Single Inheritance: A child class inherits from a single parent class.
Multiple Inheritance: A child class inherits from more than one parent class.
Multilevel Inheritance: A child class inherits from a parent class, which in turn inherits from another class.
Hierarchical Inheritance: Multiple child classes inherit from a single parent class.
Hybrid Inheritance: A combination of two or more types of inheritance.

super() function is used to call methods from a parent class (or superclass) within a child class (or subclass).

Polymorphism:  the ability of something to have more than one form.
In  programming it means the same function with the same name but used in different ways.
The difference is primarily in the data types and number of arguments used in a function. 

 Compile-time polymorphism [overloading] : the compiler determines how the function or operator will work depending on the context. 
    It is achieved by function overloading or operator overloading.

  Function overloading : two or more functions can have the same name but different parameters.
  operator overloading: operator behave differently depending on the data type they are operating on.
   ex. addition operator (+) for string to concatenate two strings and for integer to add two integers.


 Runtime Polymorphism [Overriding] : 
    same function with the same name in diff class [inherited from its base class].
    depending on which class we call function is called.










